# Examples & Utilities
This folder contains some examples and utilities that do useful things and also illustrate how to manipulate city data.

## Things
 - `city_report.py`: Command line utility to print a summary of the city to stdout.

    Command line arguments:
   - `-i`/`--input`: input .sc2 to open and generate the report on.
 - `city_preview.py`: Command line utility to create a full-resolution preview image of a city.\
    Currently very much a work in progress, but things are generally working, though there are still bugs and tweaks/features needed.

    Command line arguments:
    - `-i`/`--input`: input .sc2 to open and generate the image of.
    - `-o`/`--output`: where to save the output png. Just the filename, will append extension itself.
    - `-s`/`--sprites`: directory containing the sprites. Currently only works with large (32 x 17px tile size) sprites. These can be generates using `sprite_parse.py`.
    - `-t`/`--transparent`: if set, draw city with a transparent background.

 - `city_minimaps.py`: Command line utility to generate minimaps for a city, kinda like the ones in the game. Note that the minimaps in the game aren't 128x128, but are scaled by the UI. This generates square 128x128 minimaps.

    Command line arguments:
   - `-i`/`--input`: input .sc2 to open and generate the minimaps on.
   - `-o`/`--output`: Directory to create the minimaps in. Will overwrite any existing ones.
   - `-p`/`--palette`: Full path to the `PAL_MSTR.BMP` file to use for the palette.
   - `-d`/`--debug`: Draw debug minimaps that don't exist in the game and aren't particularly useful except for debugging purposed.

   Currently generated minimaps:
   - Structures: Only shows where structures are, base minimap in game.
   - Zones: shows zones.
   - Highlighted buildings:
     - Police stations
     - Fire stations
     - Colleges
     - Schools
   - Road network
   - Rail network
   - Subway network
   - Pipe network and water supply
   - Power network and power supply
   - Growth Rate
   - Crime
   - Fire Power
   - Police Power
   - Pollution
   - Traffic
   - Land Value

 - `city_tools.py`: Command line utility to edit simple things about a city. This is mostly used to test editing and re-saving a city, but more things could be added here as needed.
   - `-i`/`--input`: input .sc2 to open and generate the minimaps on.
   - `-o`/`--output`: where to save the resulting file.
   - `-m`/`--money`: Set an amount of money. Clamped to the maximum the game supports.
   - `-t`/`--terrain`: Put the city into terrain edit mode, instead of city build mode.
   - `-p`/`--pause`: Pause the game.
   - `-n`/`--no-sound`: Turn off music and sound effects.

 - `make_news.py`: Command line utility to generate a single newspaper article. It is also useful as a library to generate news stories. Should be complete, barring some minor formatting issues. (One of which is token mappings changing between the headline and story.)
   - `-i`: input JSON file to open, generated by `data_usa_parse.py`.
   - `-o`: where to save the resulting file. Optional, if not specified, writes to stdout.
   - `-s`: Story ID to generate, between 0 and 66 inclusive. Optional, generates a random story otherwise.
   - `-m`: Mayor's name, optional, uses a default.
   - `-c`: City name, optional, uses a random default.
   - `-t`: Sports team name, optional, uses a random default.

 - `scenario_tools.py`: Command line utility to display information about a scenario. Also allows editing of an existing scenario, or creation of a completely new scenario.
   - `-i`/`--input`: input .sc2 to open and generate the minimaps on.
   - `-o`/`--output`: where to save the resulting scenario file. Don't specify if not creating a new scenario.
   - `-s`/`--save-img`: Optional. If used, specifies a path to save a PNG version of the image from the scenario's PICT segment at.
   - `-n`/`--new-img`: Optional. Specifies an image to use for the scenario's image (PICT). Required to create a new scenario.
   - `-p`/`--palette`: Optional. Needed if loading or saving an image. Path to the palette file to use. This should be `PAL_MSTR.BMP` in all situations.
   - `-d`/`--desc-text`: Optional, but required for scenario creation/editing. This is the text that shows up once the scenario is loaded, in a small window in game.
   - `-t`/`--text`: Optional, but required for scenario creation/editing. This is the text that shows up in the scenario selection window.
   - `-c`/`--conditions`: Optional, but required for scenario creation/editing. This specifies the 17 scenario win conditions, and all must be specified as comma separated values after the flag. Example: `-c 1, 63, 63, 60, 0, 0, 0, 0, 20000, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0`. Values in the file format specification document.
